Yeah.
S.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah.
Good evening, people.
How are we doing today?
Well, thank you, Ben yourself.
Not too bad.
Not too bad. Okay,
we have a good time out.
A little less than what I was expecting,
but we are there.
Good evening.
Well, while we wait for Alex to get here,
why don't we, you know,
get some conversation going on?
It's getting very,
very uncomfortably quiet in here, right?
How did you guys find the first week,
the task at least?
It was very well, Ben. Thanks for asking.
Glad it was enjoyed.
Starting,
starting slowly and getting into it
slowly.
Yep, that's what we like to say.
Can you make OnTrack be better? Well,
you know what?
It actually started off as a doubtfire
back in the day, like 8, nine years ago,
and now it's OnTrack. Honestly,
it wasn't this bad.
I think the last time I thought this unit
was back in 2023,
and it was behaving very well.
Not entirely sure what's going on,
but we can definitely pass on that
feedback.
Yep, good intro to the setting. Oh yeah,
working through problems. That is good.
That's exactly what I want to say.
11 month old is screaming next to me.
Yeah, well, I know the feeling.
My two-year-old was just screaming
outside,
so I have no idea how I managed to calm
her down.
I guess biscuits definitely helped.
Hello, someone.
Four month old, blah blah blah.
You know,
when my daughter was four months old,
we used to think, we used to, you know,
sit and wonder when she would start
walking around,
but the day she became mobile, my God,
it was, it was a huge turning point.
Yeah.
Yeah,
toddlers when they start running around
and have a mind up to run. Yeah,
it's like the T-100 or 9 thousands of
whatever killing machines you have in the
terminator.
Ah, to 9 and 7 feel like a kid. No,
I was like that. Don't worry.
The.
Where is Alex?
I'm secretly stalking you guys on the
back.
Should be, yeah.
There we go. Hey, Alex.
Hi, good evening, guys. Like,
no daughter for me, I'm too old for that.
Good evening, not playing Dota now.
Yeah, no.
Not playing,
but I would definitely all the night.
Yeah.
Hello, everyone. Yes,
twenty-six with the four and five roll
Everyone.
and four month old.
Well, we never feel like adults, do we?
I mean,
I have a two-year-old and I feel like a
kid.
Put extraction in 30 minutes. Wow, okay.
Um, Alex, you seem to be stuck.
Yeah.
The.
Now, can you guys hear me? Hello?
Yes, I can hear you.
Awesome. Can I see the slides?
We can see the slides.
Awesome, let's start.
How are you guys going?
It's a bit chill outside here in
Melbourne.
Things today and keep warm, guys.
I have plenty of people calling sick
Yeah.
these days.
I literally just got back from daycare
and it was very chilly outside.
I got inside and I'm sweating.
So welcome to Melbourne.
Awesome.
I saw a lot of discussions around the
tasks. Yeah, I'll actually go through the,
today I'll actually go through task P2
Yeah.
with all of you guys and I hope that that
could be helpful. And I, yeah,
I saw Ethan's comment. Yeah,
I did mark your
mark your assignments, and I hope,
and I hope you guys have attempted at
least P1 and hopefully P2 and got some
feedback already,
and we will discuss that in the in this
seminar as well. So, let's get started.
Okay, so and if not, that's okay,
but please ensure you catch up,
and could anyone remind me what is the
what is the date for the due date of P1?
Hello!
Hi.
Yeah, we can hear you.
Hello.
22nd of March, I believe it was.
Hmm.
Hello!
Hi.
Ideal.
Sorry, I think.
Time.
Yep, so sorry, I missed your.
Point.
ISS.
That's in Bengal.
Vince showroom labour though.
I, I didn't come here.
Yup.
Okay.
Awesome. Second March. Yeah, awesome.
Thank you so much. Second of March, which,
Just a hot mic.
Guys, if yes, please, if...
Yep.
oh, I have 10 days. So, yeah,
sorry about that. Yeah. Okay, well,
next time we'll just mute everyone at the
beginning.
Cool. Yeah, let's continue.
So you have 10 days and I do want to
remind you that there's a request for
extension button on the task.
So if in case you couldn't make it to the
due date and you would still like to
receive feedbacks,
You can click on the request extension
button,
but it can only be done before the task
is due. So before the due date,
you can request extension just from the
OnTrack.
You don't need to go to unit chair.
You don't have to e-mail anyone.
Request an extension day and we will
receive your request and we will
approve based on the reasons and the
possibilities. And Lana's got a question.
Game number.
Is it possible to still aim for D or HD
with the engagement task if we cannot
always attend the seminars? Yes,
if you miss the seminars,
as long as you have engagement with your
peers offline,
and you have the past sessions and you
also have the discussion channels.
And you can also have your own,
because you realise there are help hubs,
right?
So you can also have your own sort of
help hub sessions each week.
You can ask other students to drop in to
help with their tasks.
So that also can contribute to the active
engager task. So there are.
There are plenty of ways to engage with
the unit and let us know,
this is week two, right?
In week three or four,
let us know how you have been engaging
with the unit so far and we can give some
feedback and we can adjust from there.
Okay.
So I do notice that some of you guys may
have received some feedbacks.
You may have completed the task.
Congratulations,
you've done a great job in completing the
task. But you have,
if you haven't got a completion status on
a task, if you ask for a resubmission,
That's fine too. And Ganesh,
can I ask why you are not sure if you
have to resubmit?
Because if the task status is yellow,
called resubmit, and you need to submit,
it should be pretty clear on the task
status itself.
So if you receive a green tick,
it's complete.
So if you get some advice for improvement,
that's fine.
You can improve that in later tasks.
You don't need to resubmit.
But if you get a green kind of resubmit
button and then resubmit status,
then you need to resubmit.
the task.
And if you receive the blue ones,
Yeah.
and that means that you don't have to
resubmit,
but you do need to follow that task up
with answering the questions or do the
demonstrations required by your tutor.
And hi, Ben, you have...
Adding up something.
Yeah, I was just about to ask,
what was the status, Vinesh?
Was it still on the blue thumbs up icon
or did you have a resubmit on your task?
It's still blue,
it says ready for feedback.
I have asked the marker.
No, no, no, no, no,
that's not what I mean.
With your first submission, right,
so your tutor gave you some feedback.
Yep.
Did they not change that status to
resubmit or discussion or something,
or was it still just pending already for
feedback?
I still says ready for feedback for like
both of them. For one, I think I need,
I had to resubmit because I had to do one
of the questions. We want, but we...
OK, OK, so, so,
so it it turned from that blue status
icon to yellow, right?
No, it still says blue,
doesn't doesn't change.
No, no, it it it is blue right now,
but what I mean is when when you got the
It.
feedback,
did it change to yellow to resubmit or no?
No,
because for P2 I haven't changed anything.
OK.
I haven't done anything. I just,
I'm not too sure.
That's why I texted the marker.
Okay.
Okay, yeah, in that case,
the best thing you can do is ask your
tutor,
because normally what happens is that
once you submit something and there's any
feedback,
it either goes in to discuss or
demonstrate or resubmit, right?
If it hasn't changed. LANA,
that is correct.
But in this case, you know,
if you have any,
if you receive feedback from your tutor
and the status has not changed yet,
I think it's, you know,
best if you can contact the tutor
directly and ask them what's really going
on,
because otherwise it's a very confusing
place to be in. It's alright, but,
Yeah.
but yeah, based on...
the feedback that I'm reading over here,
I think you might need to resubmit.
Actually, go to Teh.
Yeah, okay,
he hasn't explicitly mentioned it, right?
So it looks like it is complete,
but they haven't marked it as complete.
So it could be any reason, right?
Maybe OnTrack was acting up because it
was. It has, it still is acting up a bit,
so it can't be certain. But yeah,
So...
but definitely ask a tutor about that,
right?
I have like dropped a comment,
but it says that in future talks,
Perfect.
just to explain more,
it doesn't say anything about this one.
Yep.
Okay, thank you.
No worries.
Oh.
Yep, so if any,
you guys have any questions with your
feedback,
feel free to get in touch either with us
or you can ask us and we can have a look
during the one-on-one help time.
And also you can directly contact your
marketing tutor to explain,
to ask them to explain.
why you received this feedback or why
this task statement hasn't been changed
or any doubt that you have.
Yeah,
Teams will be the preferable contact with,
I mean, personally for me,
because OnTrack,
one thing is that we need to go into
OnTrack and see your comments on the
Yeah.
OnTrack chat box.
So we don't get any notification e-mail,
Yeah.
something like that. And we
We normally don't cheque it like every
now and then, but Teams personally,
I do have that on my phone.
So whenever you guys send a message,
I can read it from there.
Yeah, Teams, same for me as well.
Teams is recommended. OnTrack again,
you'll have to log in and of course,
if OnTrack is acting up,
you might end up waiting like a day or so,
right?
So Teams would be the best way to
approach contacting your tutors.
If you were in this class, yeah,
then of course you can speak to us
directly.
But if it's outside these sessions,
send us a message. It's fine.
We'll get to it as soon as possible.
Awesome. And yeah, come back to the topic.
Actually,
Wow.
I think I will go through one of the task
with you and then come to one of the task
sheet with you and then come back to this
learning journey because I do realise
some of the task sheet is a bit of
reading itself.
So,
it could be a bit overwhelming for you
guys.
So.
I'm starting to share the task P2 if you
guys can see that or I'm sharing the
correct screen.
Yep, it looks like it's P2. Yep.
Yeah, awesome. So.
Every time when you started a task,
you start with a task sheet.
So the task sheet will have a title,
which task is this, and the way,
and at the beginning,
there is a target for you.
So this is basically at the end that,
and what should be included for to for
your tutor to mark this task off.
So you should show us that you can build
and run.
C programmes when given the program's
code,
so you know that the code in this task
the code is given,
so you just need to build and run,
and first you need to build and run C
programs,
and then next you need to build and run C
or C programs.
If you only submit the C part and didn't
submit the C part,
the task will be marked as resubmit.
And the next thing you need to do is to
capture your learning in the learning
journey section. So this will be,
there is a template in the resource
folder.
So there's a learning journey session
that you can fill that in. Right?
And also you need to include evidence,
screenshots, i.e. the screenshots,
or if you are taking handwritten notes,
you can take photo of these notes and
your thoughts on what you accomplished.
what challenges you face and what you
found interesting.
I will later talk more in detail about
what is a good learning journey and what
is not a good learning journey.
And lastly,
you need to provide sincere reflections
in the reflection section.
So don't just tell us what you did and
tell us what you learned. This will be,
again, I'll explain that
In detail, so...
This is all you need to do for for for
complete one of the task,
and that is a summary of what you need to
do,
and then we will look into in detail what
is what are the steps that you can do to
finish the task.
And Alex, you got a question?
Yeah, sorry.
It took me literally a whole week to kind
All good.
of understand this task sheet and then it
kind of took me, yeah, to, we're like,
Yeah.
okay, I, like you said,
but like I pointed out to you last night,
I feel like this whole cloud camp is just
kind of full of Easter eggs,
Mm.
like you almost got to look for.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, and then suddenly, yeah, yeah,
because twice you told me to post in a
Yeah.
certain channel. I'm like,
where the hell is that?
Yeah, sorry about that, yeah.
And then only yesterday I found that
little hidden channels.
But I think maybe just for a constructive
feedback that Tashi could be laid out a
Mm.
bit better.
In one page,
not have to get like your installation
view of this link.
It's all on the one PDF because you know,
what if what if internet went out or
something? We can, you know,
continue working just on that PDF.
Right,
because we try to make this quite concise,
a little bit more concise to put
everything in there. Otherwise,
the whole installation itself would be
too long in one PDF.
Yeah.
Then it kind of interrupts your rate for
that. But good idea,
we may be able to put that
Inside one of the put inside the resource
folder, so it doesn't, yeah, as you said,
as you mentioned,
if you don't have internet,
you that you can still work it on,
that's that's a good thing, yeah.
Yeah, look, I mean.
It's only a suggestion.
This is just coming from my point of view.
Yep.
I haven't returned to starting after 20
years,
Yep, yep, yep.
and I think there might be quite a few
people in the same boat,
but maybe a bit too shy to stand up and
say so.
Mm.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. And yeah,
you're making a good point there.
And also,
thank you for pointing out that the
channels were hidden there.
That's certainly we need to talk about a
bit later in this seminar as well. Yeah,
I'll certainly raise that in the teachers
meeting and the meeting with the teaching
team and see how it works better for
those who may not have internet
connection.
every now and then. Yeah,
but thanks for raising that.
Not a problem, thank you.
Okay.
Oh, good. So coming back to the topic,
so this is a summary and overview of what
you need to do during one task.
And please note that if you are a bit
lost reading all those,
we do have this chapter called Complete
the Following, which is
the actual step-by-step guide of what you
need to do during this task.
So it will first ask you to download an
open template from OnTrack,
which means the resource folder,
if you unzip that zip file,
and you will see a template. So it has.
Instead of only the learning evidence,
if you scroll down, you will also see,
let me just grab one of those actually.
Resource folder.
Teh.
Two resources, so...
Just one second.
Bear with me.
So once you download the resource folder,
you will see there's one template folder,
template file here.
So if you open a template,
some of the task tasks will also ask you
will also ask you to fill in some
activities. So for this one,
you will see the learning journey
evidence, the placeholder are there.
You don't need to follow exactly as the
template giving you. For example,
if you have more than three actions,
you are welcome to copy and paste
multiple sections here to put in more
actions. How many long as you want.
You don't need to be restricted to three.
It's just a placeholder here.
And if you scroll down,
you will see the other activities that
you are required.
So please do finish reading all the
templates just in case you miss this part.
So there you will be asked to put in a
brief summary of concepts as well.
It's just a one or two liner,
won't be long.
And some other question and answers for
you to fill.
and a reflection section for you to fill
in as well.
So you will see that in different tasks,
the different,
the template would be different as well.
So do follow what is listed on complete
the following guide. Then for this task,
the next thing to do is
to review the step in the installation
overview within the V1 programmer's guide
to get the VS Code and Splash Kit
installed. So if you have done that,
that's good.
Just show the evidence of it has been
installed correctly.
So remember that we have
a command to verify what is a successful
installation, right?
You just put that in and it will be good.
And make sure to capture this in your
learning journey.
So we will actually look into your
submission to see if you have captured
that.
into the learning journey.
And do I, you have any questions?
Yep.
I was wondering how far do we have to go
with this?
As I have installed the VS Code
extensions and then it says install
Yep.
language specific tools.
And then there is using MS YS2 and there
Mhm.
is more File Explorer.
So I'm not sure how far do we have to go
Yeah.
to this.
before continue with chapter 3 building
programs. So we have to do that as well.
Yeah.
So,
that's that's included in the there's two
ways to do it: if you do,
if you done the automated setup,
so basically,
once you've finished up to here,
you're good and verified it's been
installed successfully, you're good,
but what if it fails?
You go to manual steps and you need to
finish them all.
follow all the steps. All right?
And this is a little bit of guide of how
to use this MUNOZ too.
So if you skip that,
that's not a very big issue,
if that's clear.
Thank you.
And, Alex, you got another question?
Yeah, so just to confirm,
this part was pretty much just done in
Yep.
our first seminar last week when you
showed us how to install and we don't
Yep, yep, yep, mm-mm.
need to go through that again. Okay, yeah,
one other thing was at the very end of my
No, no.
install,
what I was trying to ask on that on that
chat when you asked me to ask in the
separate room was
I got to a section that says, oh,
do you want to install all these add-ons
like AI and such and such?
And I was just like, it was like 11 PM.
M.
So I went, okay,
just say yes to everything.
I'll deal with it later.
Is that going to cause me problems later?
Or do I need to uninstall, reinstall,
and also take evidence that I've done so.
No, it should be all good.
Those add-ons will just take some extra
space if you don't use them,
or if it could have some,
if you are concerned,
very concerned with cybersecurity part,
you may want to remove those extensions,
but you don't need to remove the whole.
VS Code or whole terminal.
If you just want to remove certain
extensions,
you can just remove that extension on VS
Code. You can have a explore yourself.
I encourage you to do so first.
If you have encountered any problems,
join us help out session or ask us.
will show you how to delete those.
I don't see if you don't want them. Yeah.
Yeah, that'll be good for later.
I tried to fool around with the BSR and I
just, if you don't know what you're doing,
it's like getting keys to an aeroplane
and going, here, fly this.
Yeah, yeah, sure. Yeah, yep.
Happy to jump in a call with you later on
while we go on into the one-on-one chats.
Yep, awesome.
Yeah, thank you.
Yes,
so basically you need to mention you have
download and done the installation
process.
If you haven't done so before you're
getting to P2, that's good.
You can do a step-by-step screenshots
about to record your learning journey and
please key in whatever you have learned
during the journey as well, which I will.
Yeah.
Talk a bit in a bit, alright.
That,
that's what I mentioned in my message for
Mm.
the three of you who have reacted to that.
Just to add on one more thing,
this is not just about installing Splash
Kit.
There's a lot more that you'll be adding
over there,
but the installation covers the first
part of your learning journey, right?
What did you learn by installing that,
right? What about?
that experience, you learn something new,
right?
You have a new library called Splash Kit,
which runs across C# and.NET,
and then you go on with how did you use
the library with your projects.
Now I won't go into details about what
you're doing in the task.
You can do it with it yourself,
but this is just as done.
So no need to uninstall.
Yeah.
just reflect on that journey.
That should be good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So really no need to install,
even though you're saying that, oh,
I remembered that we can use some of the
commands to actually test,
to verify if a package is installed
properly.
Something like that would be sufficient.
All right,
and this is the first task we don't
expect you to do.
super well, 100% perfect on the first,
very first task.
That is certainly not expected. Alrighty,
so that is your first task.
Then there are some hints that if you
have any questions,
visit the Teams channel where it is a
setup discussion channel and there is a
handy video to watch and troubleshooting
guide.
And I want to stress that we do have
multiple Teams channels,
and as Alex has mentioned,
we do have that.
So you may find out you will have,
let me grab the post that we had before.
Yeah, hope you can see this picture.
So Alex has pointed out that some of you
may have these hidden channels.
So if you haven't seen the setting up
discussions,
it may lay in the hidden channels.
So make sure that you have unhidden these
channels,
then you can go to this set up
discussions.
For example,
this setting up discussions here,
scroll up at to the very top.
post that we have,
there is an installation guide video
there. So you can refer to that video.
So any of the hints on the task sheet,
please use that as a guide for where to
get help.
I.
Okay,
and then a lot of you guys may be
confused with the follow the guided tour
part.
I feel like there's a lot of missing
parts in this guided tour here.
So for guided tours,
that is the main part that
makes up your learning journey.
So go to that,
whichever the chapter you are required to
read and follow,
and go step by step because the guided
tour is a very detailed guide to lead you
go through everything. So
please follow everything step by step.
So you go to here,
you click on your first programme and
read the instructions and everything will
be actually provided. So some of the,
at the beginning,
everything will be provided here.
but later some could be hidden and you
need to click to expand. Let me see,
there's no example here yet,
but later you may see that some of the
sections are hidden for you at first
because we want you to have a try first.
And then later you can expand the button
and see all the answers here.
So in the guided tour,
you don't really need to do a lot of
guessing,
but we do encourage you to explore around.
But first is to make sure that you do
these ones,
follow the guided tour step by step and
capture screenshots along the way.
So please follow this.
guided tour. So it's a tour.
Please do not just screenshot the end and
say, oh, I finished this.
That is not what we are looking for. So,
and during the learning journey,
if you have any questions,
you encountered any challenges,
you've done any troubleshooting, please
put that in the learning journey as well.
Right. So and for the guided tour,
you need to finish everyone.
So here is your first program.
Once you've done that, click next.
You have the second one.
And go through all the activities in here
and click the next one and finish the
last one. So usually for guided tour,
you need to finish all of them.
I do so some of you guys attempted the
first one,
then submitted a task that I that I will
say you will have to resubmit your tasks.
All right.
And then the last bit that at the 4th
item, you should see this,
you should have enough to submit.
But if you want to explore more,
and these are the further readings that
you can do.
Happy for you to screenshot this and put
those in your learning journey as well.
And there's another hint,
you can read that later in your own time.
And last step is complete your submission,
complete the summary and the related
activities in the template,
and upload it to OnTrack.
That's basically everything what you need
to do. All right,
I hope that helps a little bit if you
get super lost with this task sheet.
The main part you need to focus on is the
complete the following section,
which includes all the requirements that
we,
all the activities that we require you to
do. All right.
So any questions related to what tasks,
what activities needs to be completed?
Yep, so feel free to unmute yourself.
Yeah, so for the guided tour,
we only need to complete the three steps
there, right?
Yes, there are three activities.
In each activity, those are many steps,
Yeah.
right? So I hope you go for each step.
You can screenshot all the steps that you
feel that's important.
Please don't just do a lot of screenshots
saying, oh, I finished this. Yep.
Yeah, so it just your first program,
build graphical hello world and hello
Yeah, from C. Yeah, yeah,
that is for this task.
from C plus C++. OK.
So different tasks may ask you to read
different chapters,
Okay, thank you.
finish different guided tours. And Ganesh,
you got a question as well?
Yeah,
so basically what I when I did this task,
I copied the course from VS programmes
guide and put it on my VS code,
Mhm.
Mhm.
so like that.
The graphical programme like the code,
do we have to understand the whole thing
Yeah, yeah, that's the one, yeah, yeah.
concept because it looks so complex and I
have no idea,
I have like no clue about that one.
Yeah,
that's all good because this task doesn't
ask you to exactly read the code, right?
You copy the code here and run the code
and see this can be run.
So what we ask you,
we want you to learn is that you are able
to, if you are given a code,
you are able to run it, right?
You are able to use the terminal.
Okay.
You're able to run it and you're able to
test to see, oh, it works.
If this is the example, right?
You should be able to,
you should see exactly this outcome.
What if you didn't see it?
Then you got into trouble and you have an
issue. How did you troubleshoot that?
everything we wanted to see,
but we are not asking you to explain the
code here, if that makes sense. Yeah.
Okay,
I would like to worry that you have to go
through all the codes.
Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, not not require,
but later in the next task you will you
will be asked to understand the code,
but you will have the guide.
Okay.
We will guide you,
what does this line mean?
What does next line mean?
Then you will feel like the code is
repeating itself, because, for example,
here is fill ellipse and next one,
next line is also.
The same command you will later know and
learn how to interpret the code by
yourself,
but it's not a task for this task, okay?
Okay, thank you.
Oh, good. And Alex, you got a question?
Yeah, so we're not actually,
we're not taking screenshots every step
by step then,
like you only need like the most
important bits,
because like I thought the first section
of task was just like, all right,
create a folder and you're showing how to
create a folder. I thought screenshot,
add.
I feel like this will be quite a long
document, but ideally how many.
screenshots and comments would you like
for that task to be completed to what you
seem relevant?
So, ideally, if you can't decide,
just screenshots everything,
and if you feel like, don't feel like, oh,
the document may be too long for us to
read, nothing to concern with that.
But if you feel like things are very
repetitive,
and you can take one screenshot,
but explain.
why you think is, why you think you have,
you know, you have,
you are confident that you can do all
this and what you learn from this.
I will later explain a little bit, yeah,
I will later explain more in detail of
Now, you have the true.
what a learning, kind of learning journey,
what kind of description that we are
actually looking for. All right.
Okay, fantastic. Thank you.
Oh good. So so far with the tasks,
so the focus of this part is to hope you
guys are clear with what is required,
what task,
what activities are required in each of
the tasks.
So every task sheet is structured the
same.
You will find the complete following
section.
And complete all the activities. Yeah,
I hope that makes sense. Alrighty,
and let's go back to the learning journey
part. Then,
once you are clear of what tasks you are
asked to do, then you start to.
hop on the task and start your learning
journey. So in the learning journey,
the sample template asks you to describe
action. So you describe what you did.
For example, you created a folder,
you put it, you described action,
creating a folder using the terminal.
Then you provide a screenshot of what you
created.
related to this.
So maybe you created a folder,
you screenshot what you've created.
Then describe what you learned from this,
what challenges were faced or surprises.
So I think that was where it confuses
people most.
I'll share my screen again.
Because what we are looking for is not
just say I finished this and I learned
how to create something in terminal,
right? So...
At a minimum,
we require you to capture evidence of
your final cord working.
That is just a very general minimum,
and it differs with every cases.
And on top of that,
you should capture important moments,
such as
The progression of your task,
so the steps,
the important steps that you feel like
it's worth capturing,
and the bug you faced and how you
overcame it,
and some test code you may want to write
to practise some concepts.
That's maybe for a later task,
not for this task specifically,
but later you can capture the moment.
and any moment that you feel like it's
worth talking about.
And there are some examples.
I'll give you one minute to read and.
Please let me know which example you
think should be the better one.
I think the answer is quite clear, but...
I think you know we have seen a lot of
similar examples too.
We have seen a lot of example one and
we've seen a lot of example 2 as well.
Yeah. Yeah,
I can see people are voting for,
for example, 2 here. Yeah.
So it's very clear that example two
is a better one. Why it is better?
Because if you just say I learned how to
use a terminal and run a code file
successfully, we don't need to ask you,
we don't need you to write it.
We saw your screenshots.
We know you've done that, right? Ben,
you have anything to add on?
Yeah,
just one something that I saw earlier
today, right? Yes,
we absolutely love to see, you know,
really good reflections. Now,
also keep in mind that simply increasing
the font size does not mean providing a
lengthy or really deep reflection, right?
Yeah.
I actually saw that.
Right,
please don't do that if you know you're
thinking of it. This is not just for us,
it's also for you guys to think about
what you've done and how you know how
that will actually help you, right?
It's kind of like a revision for yourself.
Do you have Alex?
Yeah, that's, yeah,
that's a very good point that is actually
act as a revision for yourself. Yeah,
so a lot of us will later find out that,
although we've passed the days,
that we need to remember some of the
codes and we need to write the codes by
ourselves. We've got AI, but
A lot of the things can actually serve as
your notes for your future study.
That's also an important part.
So not only example 2 is more words to it,
right?
It also shows us what you have done and
what you have learned, right? So you can
It's an expansion of what you just did,
and you will.
I wish that all the we as the reviewers,
we need to know that you don't just learn
to copy and paste that command into the
terminal. You actually realize.
what the commands can do, can achieve.
MKDR, what does that mean?
It actually means something like making
directions, right? You can make,
it is used to create new folders.
Explain that, let us know.
I did a shabby example of...
creating a folder name with a space and I
ended up creating two folders.
You may have different explorations.
You may have different bugs, right?
And once you find anything and at least
the resources that you find helpful,
because I just searched on Google.
In this case,
you're welcome to ask AIs why terminal is
not working, right?
Why it created 2 folders for me and AI
replied that you need to add quotation
marks, single quotation, double quotation,
all does the job.
And usually AI will give you a very long
a story for you to read and it will,
can I show you more, blah, blah, blah.
You can follow that journey, right?
And then you have more to put in your
learning journey, right?
That's actually what we wish to see in
your learning journeys. Alex,
you got a question?
Yeah,
I have been using Claude to because out
late at night,
I haven't had anyone to bounce ideas off.
So I usually put the question in and then
I show my answer. I go,
did I get this right?
Don't tell me the answer,
but can you let me know where I might
have gone wrong? Am I supposed to,
at the end of the task, say that I used
AI to help quiz me or anything or is that
specifically only for writing assignments?
You can certainly, I mean, in this unit,
not sure about other units, in this unit,
you can certainly ask AI to quiz you and
you can put that,
it's actually a good resource that you
can put it in the learning journey.
Yeah,
it's actually been absolutely fantastic,
We don't, yeah.
Claude. It's like,
it's literally like having one of you
Mm.
guys sitting next to me and I just, like,
I say, okay, here's the question. Okay,
here's my answer. Did I get this correct?
And I'll say yes or no. And I go, oh,
Yeah.
nearly, you got three out of five steps.
You want to try again?
And then I, what I do then is I go,
just so I understand this,
Exactly, yeah.
this means this, this, this, and this,
and it will say, you know, yes, spot on,
no,
or you've got like 3 out of five things
right. This is the actual, you know, yeah,
but that's okay, right? That's.
Yeah.
Yeah,
that's perfectly fine because we don't
want to,
what we don't want you to do with AI is
that you can feed the task PDF to AI,
right?
That they can do a lot of things for you.
Yeah. I've seen people do that. Yeah.
No, but sorry.
Do you want us to download the chat and
install that at the end or I mean add
that as part of the assessment or?
Or do we just hold on to the chat just in
case, like, yeah,
Ohh, no, you don't have to.
I'm just a little paranoid of being
accused of plagiarising or something,
and I just feel like while I'm using it
is as a tutor.
Now you can screenshot the chats that you
don't need to download and attach
Okay, fantastic.
everything to them. Yeah, so for example,
like I said, in this specific example,
I created a folder with a name in a space
and I ended up with creating two folders
and ask AI why.
Then I can screenshot what have asked AI
and what
AI has returned to me and put that as a
learning evidence saying that I've used
this resource. Then, yeah, we're all good.
Yeah.
Okay, fantastic. Thank you.
Oh, good.
Hey, how about a person? Oh, I mean,
let's see, I, I mean...
Hey, cheap Ram. Cheap Ram, come on.
Yeah,
I don't know how it will burst to be
honest, but yeah, let's see, let's see.
So yeah, that's learning journey.
So I hope this example helped you a
little bit. That's not a very good one,
but you may have multiple different
versions. But I hope it just,
you all see that example 2 is the better
one. So please stick with that.
Awesome!
And for the reflections,
I know sometimes reflections,
learning journey,
what you learned and reflections can be a
bit confusing.
Don't think too much on that.
So a reflection is not what you did.
Again,
a lot of students we've seen in the past
have put
I've learned this and this is very
important. That's very too high level.
We want something really to the ground
and what makes sense to you specifically.
So link what you did to what will help
you specifically. For example,
if you want to be a cybersecurity
specialist,
right?
How using the terminal will help you.
If you want to be a software engineer,
how using the terminal will help you,
right?
So don't say that it is very important.
We all know we put in this as a learning
material.
So we know that it's important for you to
learn this,
but we want to understand why it makes
sense to you.
and what you actually learned from this.
And don't worry too much if that content,
you finish your learning journey first,
you write a lot of things,
a lot of reflections actually in the
learning journey, that's fine as well.
So you can repeat a little bit in the
reflection as well.
I don't think it's a huge problem.
As long as you are genuine in your
reflections,
it's not something too high level and too
summarising the things we already know.
That's all good. And Ben,
you are adding something else.
No,
it's mostly just for the reflections part,
right? Like,
now that you're talking about the command
prompt or the terminal, that matter, like,
this is this could be a reflection for
you as well, right? This is my reflection,
right? Initially,
it was extremely hard for me, right?
I had absolutely no idea what I was doing.
There were so many commands.
Today,
I prefer a command line interface over
like a GUI because it's much faster,
right? I mean, for me,
Yes.
it's like I use a Mac. I have, let's say,
a couple of projects for the setup,
and if I need to go somewhere,
I won't really go into the file explorer,
you know,
digging down to take five different files,
and then click on something and then say,
hey, right click, open in this thing.
I'd rather just go CD.
And tap, tap, tap, tap,
tap already in the in the folder and code
dot, that's it.
It's 10 seconds faster for me using the
command prompt, not command prompt,
the terminal,
than using a graphical interface, right?
So, like, was the task easier? Well,
it's easier for me, right?
What did I learn?
Well,
my learning is that it's much easier,
it's much more streamlined, I guess,
right?
And you have literally everything in
between the types. If that go away,
it's a bit more fit. Now,
that might not be the same for you guys,
right?
So think about all these different
aspects and how you evolve over the
premise as well. So later down the line,
when you work on your reflections,
things like these little things might
actually come in handy.
How long did it take you to gain that
sort of confidence though?
Thanks, Spence.
Yeah.
Because you said you've been doing it for
years.
Yeah.
It.
Was it did this just start last week then
or?
Okay, I'll tell you what, right?
I actually started using the terminals
back in 2009, right? So a long, long,
long time ago.
But it took me like a couple of weeks to
get good on, right?
And it did not really start out like,
you know,
me being an expert at all the Git
commands and every single terminal
command that you can find, no.
All I was doing is initially was CD,
touch, NKDIR, a couple of pipes,
and then I started Googling stuff, right?
And back then, Google was, well,
it was good, but not as good as today.
But you still had to dig through heaps
Teh.
and heaps of these different stack
overflow posts just to figure out exactly
what was going on.
Then you learned something about this
command called.
Cloud history, right? You know,
you learn about pipes,
Yeah.
then you learn about what counts and all
these things,
then you learn about different tools
called... Well,
I'm not really giving you the tool names,
but there are plenty of tools available
that you can attach to the end of your
commands. It takes a while, right?
You will only learn when you explore more.
But that happened to me, right?
So you would normally start with CD and
LS. What else would you normally use,
right?
These are like the commands that you keep
on using every single day, right?
Mm.
LS with all those different options.
And eventually you'll actually find out
that day. It's not as bad, right?
If you need something, just Google it.
we'll figure something out.
The same with supply git. Git commands.
Now, we do have UI interfaces.
I absolutely hate those.
Come on line for me.
I.
Oh yeah,
this is coming from someone who's been
Teh.
using it for like what,
well over a decade, 15 years I guess,
more than that, but still,
it just takes you like a couple of weeks
to get good at it.
Awesome, yeah, and you don't,
and you don't need to know a lot of
Awesome, thank you.
commands to you know,
to get used to start using terminal.
Yeah.
Maybe you just love to use four of them,
and that's enough, just stick to terminal.
Yeah, exactly.
And sometimes I switch between GUIs and
terminals, whichever suits me the best,
Oh.
that doesn't matter.
Yeah, sometimes I do prefer juice. Yes,
it's, yeah, exactly.
Depends on.
I mean, it depends on what I'm doing,
right? Like, if I'm doing, like,
if I'm editing photos and videos,
I definitely go. I mean,
you can't really do that on a command
line, you know, interface, but coding,
Mm.
definitely a command line.
Exactly.
Awesome, thank you.
And I will provide a little bit of
example. Again, it's not the best ones,
and it's just showing example of what we
see in a lot of the submissions.
And for example,
I learned about terminal and commands and
use commands to create folders and
C-sharp.
project.
So this is not actually reflecting what
you have learned,
it's just a recap of what you have done
in this task.
So good examples that you can really,
what you have really learned,
that you can use the terminal to create
new folders and new C# projects.
And terminal can be quicker. Well,
you can put in your reflections.
I saw that as well,
that people hate terminals, right?
You prefer to stick to GUIs. That's fine.
As long as it's from you and it's to the
ground,
not something very abstract and high
level. That works.
Mikai.
Alrighty, I hope that reflection,
the example of reflection and learning
journey makes sense.
Do you guys have any questions around
that?
If not, that's awesome.
And I look forward for your future
submissions.
And for those who have received feedback
on your task,
I think you already know what you've done
well and what to keep and what needs to
be improved.
Our feedback have been very detailed,
so please submit the task.
If you are very unsure, finish it first,
then we can gradually make it better.
Okay, so we've covered this already.
So these are the status that you may
receive,
you have resubmit and you have discussion.
So I think that's already been very clear
to you guys.
And if you have any questions,
reach out to us or
With Artuda.
Salman,
are we allowed to use package reference?
That really depends. For the past task,
we hope you stick to the learning
resources because of the, again,
about the limitation and of
judging around the plagiarism and all,
we hope you stick to what we have
provided because otherwise you can borrow
codes here and there.
It also does the job.
Everything we required you to do,
we have already provided the resources to
you, the library required. But again, for
those distinction, high distinction tasks,
those free tasks,
then there's no limitation on using other
libraries or references.
Alrighty,
so Help Hubs will begin this week.
It could be next week as well.
I'm not too sure.
Have you guys jumped in any of the Help
Hubs yet?
Alex, you got a question?
I've the Help Hubs for 182 start this
have started this week.
Yeah, no.
I wanted to ask though,
when were we supposed to get like an
e-mail notification or an invite for the
102 Help Hubs?
Technically, no, but you will,
the announcement will announce that Help
Hub is available. Once it's available,
it should be in the School of IT Help Hub.
It won't happen in this channel for one
or two.
Okay.
It will happen on the School of IT Help
Help.
You will have this Teams channel as well.
So go into the School of IT Help Help and
you will see,
I'm not too sure this year which they're
going to just create new channels.
You can see from previous years we have
different channels for
Oh, we already got it. Oh, see,
I got this hidden channels as well.
It's hidden for me. Okay,
so you got this T1 2026. It's a, yeah,
See, I told you, it's a nightmare. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
it's a nightmare. Yeah, exactly.
I saw 2025 and I saw, oh, no,
nothing's created,
and then I hit it again. Okay,
now you see this SIT 102.
So we have this Help Hub sessions.
The meeting will be hosted here,
and the tutor there will be start a
meeting, and you jump in the meeting.
And yeah,
they do have different links as well.
So online sessions, Tuesday,
530 to 630 and Wednesday, 630 to 730,
Saturday, 10 AM to 12 PM.
On top of the seminars we have on Monday,
6 to 8, Thursday, 6 to 8,
you basically have a whole week
coverage. And the online sessions, yes,
they happen in weird times because the
online sessions,
we hope to catering for those who cannot
make it offline and who are working
especially.
So we hope to make some time that is not
in during, it is after hours.
So that's the time that you can jump in.
And those are the in-person sessions.
Anyone that's interested are welcome to
jump in this in-person sessions as well.
So that was just the in-person sessions
you read the time soon, not the cloud yet.
Oh right, okay, yeah. Well, this...
Was that was that correct?
Did I did I hear that right?
That's all, it's maybe weird,
but usually it happens after a seminar or
something. So you can go to the seminar,
then you can go into the Help Hub as well.
So we hope you make one travel and then
you can make to all the sessions. So yeah.
Okay, yeah,
I can pretty much only do cloud.
Yep, so if you only do cloud,
these are the sessions you can jump in
and you can use Monday and Thursday
seminars.
Could you just post those in the chat,
please, Alex, when you get a chance?
I can share this link, actually,
copy link and put it in the chat.
Thank you.
All good,
so you guys can see it from here. Awesome.
Any questions around help ups?
Hope you're all clear.
And if there are too many people in one
session, we may form, again,
we may form a queue like what we did in
the seminar, and you need to wait until,
wait for your turn.
Help.
Oh, good.
So let's have a little bit of a break.
Then we will, oh no, that's past session.
And then we will look through a little
bit of demo on
task P2 itself.
So we talked through the task sheet.
Okay.
We didn't demo how to create folders and
such,
and we will do a little bit of demo on
that after we come back at 7:00.
Alrighty, thanks guys. I'll see you soon.
What's good, little?
You know what's cooked?
You know what's cooked right in the oven?
Um, Ethan, uh, is it open to me?
Okay,
let's come back to the little bit of demo
of the terminal.
I hope you already done it.
Feel free during all the seminar sessions
because we are student-led sessions,
so we will do all these demos.
But if you already finished that part and
you are way ahead of us,
feel free to do your,
follow your own pace and using this time
to finish your tasks. And you can mute us,
do whatever you like,
and come back to the help queue.
Because when we come to the one-on-one
help session,
I will make a post that I will tag all of
you. Once you see that tag, you see,
you will know that the help queue has
started,
and you can put your name in there.
we can go on one-on-one calls.
So you can drop out anytime and feel free
to watch the recording and don't need to
follow if you are way ahead of us.
But the demos are more for students who
are still trying to catch up and need
some more help in the very basic level.
So we still need to
catering for the need of those students
and for past level tasks,
we do offer a lot of help,
a very detailed help.
Already, so let's start it, so...
This is the guided tour that we were
starting, right? So we will see in the,
we've read the task sheet before.
This learning journey starts from here.
So once you click into the guided tour,
you see your first program.
This is the title,
and here is the summary.
So once you look at the summaries,
you will see, oh,
here are the steps needed to build your
own program, and you will see
all those,
create a new folder and use the new
console and add the package, blah, blah,
blah,
you will probably be confused about where
to start. What is, what does that mean?
And start panicking and all that.
And don't need to worry about that
because all the guided tools are very
detailed. It will provide a step by step.
So read along, it will.
It will always provide a bit of summary
in there and later it will provide the
detailed steps for you to actually follow
what should be clicked on,
where should you start.
So don't worry and don't feel
overwhelming if you read all this and
feel lost. So you can actually see,
let's go through these steps.
to build a simple terminal-based
programme to output the test Hello World.
All right.
And this is a little bit of interesting
read about why Hello World.
You will see in every program,
in every language, all the templates,
it's all start from Hello World.
So here is a bit of reading.
If you wonder.
why we're using Hello World everywhere.
Then coming back at the first step,
we make sure you are all set up.
So we need somewhere to put our projects
code for this.
We will create a folder in our document
code folder.
So feel free if you are later more
confident.
If you hate for someone that's from a
very old
generate the generation that we don't put
everything in our C drive and put folders,
files in other drives.
Feel free to put any of the folders you
like once you are confident. For now,
we are following this document slash code
folder. And following that,
you should have created this folder as
part of the tour in the computer use
chapter. So
I believe most of you guys started,
if you started from here,
you haven't finished this part.
So we go to this part and.
Finish the tour, so you click on that,
it will take you to creation of the of
the folder, so...
These are steps for different methods
that you installed this splash kit.
So you have Mac, you have Linux,
Windows MS YS2, and Windows WSL.
So for me, I installed using MS YS2.
So I will follow this instruction.
For you, you may click on
Different instructions to follow along.
So, once I click that, I will see a...
screenshot showing me how to do this.
So you will need to have installed MS
Wise too.
So this again provide a link if you
haven't installed,
but I believe you have all done so.
So now following this screenshot,
we need to open the
Ming W64 terminal.
Search this in the Windows Start menu and
select the app green box below.
So you will know exactly where to start.
So I will do exactly what is asked to do
as well.
So I will click the search and click what
is asked me to search.
search this.
So I can copy and paste and feel free to
input as well. So I put it searching here.
I don't need to click.
I'll just paste it here.
Okay, so...
open this.
So it exactly looks exactly like the
screenshot. So I have opened this.
Then, yep.
Um, Alex, um, you might be, yeah, okay.
I was just about to say you might need to
raise your camera a bit.
Yeah, sorry, I,
the big screen is actually behind me.
Okay, cool. And at this point,
you should see a prompt within the
terminal.
This is a shell asking you to give it an
instruction. So you type commands.
It means that this is what you see. Okay.
You type commands and press enter to
Enter or return key on your keyboard to
get the shell to do what you have asked.
So it actually gives you the key you need
to press. All right?
So it asks you to try the following, echo,
hello, who am I?
So you can copy that and that's shift
insert, right? Yeah.
Yes, shift insert,
that's the correct shortcut to paste.
I can.
Copy that and press or enter the enter or
return key. So I press the enter key.
And it returns to see what is my username
actually. So this is my username.
So you will see exactly the same thing it
has returned.
It will tell you which user is currently
using this computer.
Okay.
So this is a little bit of hints to make
it to work. So you need to use the.
double quotes around the text and back
****, not single quotes.
So if you made any mistakes,
you can always cheque these hints.
All right.
So, going to the,
you click next and you will see this is
another tour of how to open the terminal,
lease file, move to other folders,
you just follow everything along, and.
Do these do these steps and it will come
to make a folder part.
So this is what we are what is required
for this guided tour.
So I'll skip these bits, but please,
in your free time,
follow these follow these commands and.
right up your learning journey as well.
So we're going to the makeup folder bit
and.
Follow these instructions. You can,
if you click this copy,
you will it will copy all of them,
but feel free to do this line by line, so.
..
What we want to do is to keep the
programme files together.
So keeping in the same folder for this
unit. So in the terminal,
you can use all this long commands,
or you can use this shorter ones.
So you can go to type in
or you can copy and paste.
I'm just typing in MKDIR my new.
Order.
and click enter,
then I think my folder has been created,
but how am I able to know that?
Then we enter this command.
Which lists your files and folders.
Then you will see this my new folder here.
which is not,
I don't prefer this dash out.
Usually I'll just do this.
So if you use LS as well,
without the long flag,
you will see less details.
So you will see under this folder,
I will have my new folder in there.
Then how to move into this folder.
If we operate
At the moment,
you will operate outside of my new folder.
You need to create new files inside my
new folder.
So we need to go inside this folder first.
This is the command to do it.
You need to do CD.
My new folder.
Now you have this my folder created.
and.
It asks you to have a go at it yourself,
create a code folder in our documents
folder.
We can then use this for all our code
projects later on.
So that actually goes back to the
beginning of this chapter saying that you
should have this code folder.
already created. If not, don't worry,
you can still use this MAKSYMENKO command
to create the folder in your documents
under your documents parent folder.
So since I haven't got the code file
created, code folder created,
I can still copy that and do it.
I always try to do Control V, not good.
And shift inserts, so we make a new.
Make a new directory and.
Go to see the change directory,
go to that directory.
To to.
Okay,
so we can see that the path have actually
changed to this code folder, right?
And then...
We can do the MKDIR hello world.
So we can make directory,
we can create the project itself.
So now we are inside the code,
which is the big file we created for all
the projects.
Now we are creating one project folder
for this task. So we'll do
Follow along to MKDIR. Hello.
OLD.
And we do see the hello world.
I mean you can copy all copy both of the.
Ugh, my typing is terrible.
You can copy both of the commands and run
it all at once. That's all good.
And then what we need to do is to create.
NET project files. All right,
so this is the thing we need to do for
each time once you start a.NET project,
you need to do this. The 2
To create initial project files for these
C# programs,
you need to copy and paste the following
commands into our terminal window.
So we copy that and we paste it to your
terminal.
And it will take a little bit of a while
for it to create all the necessary files
to start a project. So once we,
once it's finished,
we again always cheque with LS.
And we can see this dot CS project file
has been created, dot CS has been created,
and this OBJ folder has been created.
So you know that this has been
successfully created.
I remember this should be a message
saying that you're...
your app has been successfully created or
what, but never mind. Okay, so yes,
you can run this file in a terminal after
the commands above, you should see this.
So
If I do this, well, I mean,
I do this without the details,
at least the files without the details.
You can use this with the details with
different flags.
And you should see something exactly like
the screenshots.
the provided example.
So now if you find something different,
then you can go online to search why it
looks different and all.
So that can become part of your learning
journey.
Screenshot this and put it in the
learning journey file, and then goes on.
Next one, from the terminal window,
we can open the current folder in the
Visual Studio Code using the following
command.
which is code space dot.
Space dot.
So we just wait for it to start. For me,
it loads up in here. And there's a note.
If it does not work on your computer,
you can open Visual Studio Code and click
File, Open folder,
which means if it doesn't open
automatically for you,
You can go here, file and open folder.
You can also open the folder from the GUI
here. You see this document code.
You can also click this and select folder
as well.
So I remember in some of the submissions,
I saw students writing that this code
This command doesn't work.
Code space dot doesn't work.
And they did a bit of change in the
setups in Visual Studio Code and made
this command to work,
which is an excellent example that you
can write in your learning journey.
And Ben, you have anything to add up?
Yeah, if it's not working,
it's actually fairly straightforward.
I mean, if Alex,
if you can show that to them on VS Code,
Yeah, sure.
you can just press Control Shift and P.
Yeah, yeah, we'll go stick now, yep.
Yeah, and you can just type in share.
Right, so the same applies to Mac users,
right? Oh, hang on, hang on, hang on,
hang on. Why is it measuring up for you?
Not sure.
Could be different.
Shell command, no, no, it's the same one.
You're not seeing that. Okay,
that is interesting. Because on, I think,
the latest version, when you do that,
it actually gives you an option to
install that part. Now,
you might have already done that.
Maybe that might be the reason you're
seeing it. But yeah, if you do that.
It should give you an option to install
it in your in your path, right? So,
Right.
for Mac, use that Command Shift N.P.
For you, it's Control Shift N.P. ALEX,
and you can just search for,
or maybe just search for path instead of
Yeah.
Yeah, I think so. Yeah,
that's what I think. Yeah.
shell path.
Oh.
Yeah, you're not saying that, right?
So maybe the search for install code.
Mm.
Install.
Yeah, install.
Mhm.
Is there anything you see here?
install code? You don't see that. Okay,
Is a tool.
let me take a screenshot and share it
here. This is what we normally see.
Yep.
Right,
so this would actually help you guys to
set this thing up properly if it's not
already working for you. There we go.
I've added a screenshot here.
All right.
Yeah.
So,
install code command in part that
So.
actually helps you with setting
everything up. Otherwise,
She.
as Alex mentioned, you can just, you know,
open this separately and then, of course,
yeah,
you can open VS Code separately and then
go to the folder.
Yep.
So, we've got the folder open here,
and we have this one because I got a very
bad eyesight,
so my terminal is my view is often very
big. I'll make it smaller,
so you will see that.
Once it's been successfully set up,
we go to the terminal.
It will show the main W64 here already.
So any questions so far from terminal to
Visual Studio Code?
I, yeah,
I'm installing through the scripts and
Yep.
it's just saying that I'm missing one of
the splash kit files.
Mhm.
Did you you are using you were using the
automatic scripts you were saying?
I yeah.
Right, okay,
so can we jump on in a call later in this
seminar, and we can,
we'll put a jump in a call and deal with
that. Is that okay?
Yeah, sounds good.
Awesome, thank you. And Ganesh,
you got another question?
Or if you are okay? Yeah.
Yeah,
when I run the code in the other terminal,
it opens the BSR code,
but the screen is too big that I can't do
anything.
I can't search. Yes,
like I don't know how to explain this one.
Too big?
I can seem like all the things is working.
Maybe we can, yeah, maybe, yeah,
maybe you can just get on the call after
So...
this, do it one to one, I guess.
Yeah, yeah, we can again put on the call.
So you can toggle these ones up and down.
Okay.
And also, if you hold,
are you using a Windows or a Mac?
Windows.
Windows,
so if you hold a control and you can
actually use a plus.
And use plus for make it bigger and use
minus keys to make it smaller.
No, it like it's different in my case.
It is the right. OK,
we can jump in a call later. Yeah,
That's OK.
we'll do it with that.
Because I'm in the condom right.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, don't worry. Yep, all good.
Thank you. And so see,
now we are in Visual Studio Code.
and the way you still following that.
And you will notice that,
after opening the project,
a bin folder and a file will be added
automatically,
and here is the file that we are adding
the code in.
So we need to open the program.
cs file by double clicking the file in
the Explorer tab. All right,
so we can click in this dot.
It's actually single click will do.
So you click on that and you will be able
to see a sample code already existed.
In there.
Alrighty, so I'll actually, oh no,
not in this window.
I'll actually make it half and got this
half.
So I hope that's not too small in your
computer, if that's all right. Only to.
Let me know anytime if you want me to.
Increase the screen size. OK,
that's awesome. Alrighty, so we have,
that's what I usually like to do.
We have half of the screen there,
half of the screen of the half reference,
half of the working space, so...
Once we open that,
copy the following code into your program.
cs file, replacing the existing code.
So we are saying that we just remove this.
We copy that and replace this.
Okay, so exactly copy and paste.
Now copy and paste works. I'm happy now.
And after the last line,
you can add another red line bit of code
with your own custom message.
So you can copy that, create another line,
and add something like,
Welcome.
To SIT one or two.
Yeah.
And build and run your code, so...
Let's turn your code into a programme
like magic.
Use the following command to build and
run the program.
I hope this is not overwhelming for you,
because if you feel confused,
just scroll down.
You will see that this is where you can
run your code.
So we edit our code in this file.
The program, the code file,
but when we run it,
we run it in the terminal, so...
In the terminal, you run your,
you put that command in,
you do copy and paste.
and click hit enter to run it.
I may added another.
Okay,
unable to load the other one of the
dependencies. Okay, I've faced a bug.
So if you have encountered any similar
issues like me,
now you need to troubleshoot.
It can make another good example of a
learning journey as well.
So once you encounter any of the issues,
Don't worry,
screenshot this and put that into a
learning journey and also shows how you
deal with this issue.
I think I've seen this issue for many
times, DLL and these dependencies.
So what I will do is to,
I think it's in one of the...
Installation issues.
Enable to.
Command not found.
Mentors typos could not be found.
Maybe this.
Yes, I think I missed that part.
Where did that part go?
Then it's time to.
Read my guided tour again.
So...
I, did I not do this? Do this again.
Dot net new console dot that add projects.
Let me cheque again.
I did this.net at package splash kit.
Let me do this again,
see if that solves the problem.
But I s- this one doesn't give me any...
Errors.
Let me do it again.
And you can use the up arrow to. Oh,
I did add again. OK, so now run.
Okay, I got another issue to solve. Okay.
Alrighty.
What do I need to do if that doesn't work?
M.
Notice,
I may need to add that into my path.
Do you reckon that, Ben?
Sorry,
just responding to a student over here.
Yep.
Okay, so if you got a, hang on,
what error did you get?
Yeah, I've added the... Yeah,
maybe I need to.
Do A dot-in build and then do a dot-in
build as well.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, maybe, yeah,
thoughts.
Uh...
Move this a little bit,
so you can't see it.
Dot net builds.
Me up, and now that's the.NET one.
And.
Just do this.
That's so interesting, right?
As assembly are a lot around, yeah,
it might be the case that something went..
.
First.
Yeah,
something might have gone wrong when you
were trying to link,
but you were trying to add this package.
If you open that file explorer,
you would see that CS prod file.
Yep.
Click on that. Yeah,
let's take a look at that. Expand this,
Yeah.
please. If you scroll down, it...
I got the screw.
It does have, it does have that,
that is a bit weird.
Got the splash, kid.
Click on hello world dot SLN,
that solution file.
Yeah.
Okay,
you can you can actually ignore that.
Jess.
There's nothing in there. No. Okay,
that's a bit weird.
How about you just close the terminal on
a new one,
because it can happen sometimes.
Exactly.
Yeah,
Caitlin have the exactly the same
question when going through one of the.
So in that case,
I may need to reinstall the splash kit.
Sometimes that solves the problem.
I've seen this multiple times.
Let me search if actually it's a good
experience. Let me search.
In the channels,
if anyone has unable to load DSL splash
kit,
if anyone has raised that question before.
Sometimes I like to have...
Okay, Alex, can you just search for, wait,
hang on.
Yeah,
because I'm trying to see if someone has
asked, raised that before in the, yeah.
There you go.
There we go, so...
Yeah, so see,
sometimes when you run into an issue,
you can actually search, use this,
this kind of works like a stack overflow
now.
So you can search this in the Teams
channel and someone may already have the
similar issue and they've already got the
answer here.
So this is exactly what has happened.
to me as well.
So system DSL not found exception.
I will just double cheque if I've got the
same error.
Yeah,
100 exceptions system that they are all
not phone exceptions, so we.
See for that,
especially mostly definitely installed as
per troubleshooting guide.
Usually means the setup was missed during
the installation process or that the
terminal has not been restarted after
installation.
Also ensure you are using the right
terminal.
Although we now have two options.
If one failed, you can try another option.
Root cause of the problem are using a
standard using user account that does not
have admin permissions.
This means I want to run.
For the terminal,
run as user rather than login user.
Alex,
can you just sort of want this one
command on your terminal?
Just want to cheque something out.
Yeah.
Yep.
If you can open that, so you can just do,
yeah, just do that, go down, go down,
This one?
Mm.
yeah, just type in history, space, pipe,
pipe as in that vertical line. No, no,
Oh.
that vertical line, yep, space, grep,
GREP.
E.P.E.P. Yeah, grab and splash get.
Oh, EP, oh sorry, yeah.
space splash get here.
Let's see what we get.
See, now running,
now this is where all these command line,
you know,
the terminal commands come in handy,
right? So,
we know exactly what we're running,
so we have we've already installed it
twice and we tried installing that add
Mm.
package. Now,
think about any command that you might
have missed.
Was the JSON settings down and paste in
terminal?
Hey,
what's the tech demo without having any
issues, right?
Exactly.
Okay, so we have some options. First one.
If you don't have,
if you are using a standard account that
is not an admin account.
Then you could,
when you run as administrator,
you could have some privilege not
elevated. That could be my case as well,
because I'm not using the admin account
by myself. That could be. I need to.
Do another installation with the correct
setup,
or we have some other recommendations
with the JSON settings done and paste in
terminal.
The JSON settings,
the JSON settings are not really related
So...
to Splash Hit installation.
It's mostly setting up your VS Code
environment,
so that should not technically be an
issue. Yeah, it most likely looks like,
you know, an installation problem.
Yeah, so in this case, Caitlin,
I recommend you to do installation and
reinstall again. If that doesn't work,
maybe try to do WSL again and hope that
fix the problem.
That being said, right, I mean,
just this is like my personal experience,
Hmm.
like even in the past,
I've had students who had the same issue.
Now, that was with C, right? Yeah,
I'm talking about 2021-22. Even then,
Yeah.
we would have issues like, well,
splash get not found,
some issues with the library,
and then the only thing that fixes fixed
all that was reinstallation.
So what you can do, Alex,
is can you go to splashkit.io?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, that's what I'm thinking.
And my typing has been terrible. Sublash.
Telephone.
I hate this.
Yeah.
I just go to the first one. Yeah, go down,
go down, go back.
Yeah, and.
Go back.
Yeah, go back, scroll down, scroll down,
scroll, scroll up, there was a,
You said.
there was a small box, scroll up, yeah,
there we go,
copy and paste that batch command,
just copy and run that again.
No, I probably need to do, do we need to,
I probably need to run as administrator.
As remember.
Teh.
You can try that, yeah. The thing is,
like,
Yeah, I'll just do.
it might not be the administration issue.
Like,
you've already installed Splashkit
properly, so it's not that.
Mm.
Exactly.
OK, try, yeah, hang on, you're running,
try running it as an admin.
Let's see what happens.
Yeah,
I've got I've put it in running admin.
That looks a bit different, yeah.
There you go, you already have that right?
So that's perfectly fine.
Updating splash get, let it update.
And also it could be because of the
script,
usually with the automation installation,
could be something missing.
Failed run test program. Interesting,
right?
This may require root access,
which means you are not running as an
History.
admin. You don't have elevated privileges.
Yeah, that's right.
Exactly. Yeah,
and also it's not enter the password.
It didn't prompt me to enter the password.
So I think it's because I didn't use the
admin account for this computer.
So please go to the admin. Usually, yeah.
Yep, it's okay, it's okay.
Maybe we can move on to the, yeah,
we can move on to the next bits, right?
Already.
And yeah, if any, if there,
if there's anyone here, Kathleen,
Yep.
I know you have this same issue.
If there's anyone else,
Yep.
we can probably discuss that when we have
the one-on-one session.
If anything doesn't work,
I will recommend you to install the
Windows subsystem instead.
I'll later maybe try this as well.
So yeah, that's,
but I think that gives you a gist of why
you come into an issue like me and what
you should do.
You can see that we have a lot of answers
in here like this, and do raise questions.
You see this come in handy when you have
when you have questions,
and then this usually when you do your
task, there's no one around you,
and use this discussion forums as a guide.
Already, and I think this...
basically what I want to demo as well,
because I do want to show what a
successful run with the terminal is,
but apparently it is not working for
I.
No, no, it can, it can.
Splash Kit. Exactly.
I can use maybe system if...
Okay, what you can do, uh...
So, console is that system.console? Yeah,
that's the one.
No, no, no, yep, you can do that. I mean,
that's basically getting rid of.
Yeah, splash kit, yeah. So I'm just,
I don't follow exactly this.
I just want to show the successful,
what is a successful terminal looks like.
And this is not using splash kit,
by the way. If I comment this out.
Um,
it means that I'm not using Splash Kit.
Yeah, so see, yeah,
because my splash kit doesn't install
There you go.
successfully,
I tried to demo with console dot right.
Don't follow this because you need to get
the splash kit up and working.
If it's not working, please come to us.
Once it's successful,
With the code you copied,
you should see this hello world as well,
alright?
Awesome.
That's pretty much I want to demo for now.
For the rest of the task,
copy paste the code you are asked to run
and
Here, because I couldn't do this.
Let me see if I can run the SEB.
Ben, do you reckon I can get the C work,
maybe?
Try it out, try it out, see what happens.
Just make sure you move outside that.
Yeah.
net folder.
Yeah, exactly.
So this is for C# and also we need to do
C,
which is a little bit from the steps we
do for a C# project. So for a C project,
you need to 1st create a project as well.
So in the C# project, you need to do the.
NET
new console. But for this,
we again go to this code file,
code folder in the terminal,
and feel free to do it in VS Code as well.
Oh, sorry, I used copy paste again.
Shift insert.
Code,
and now we are inside the code folder.
We need to create the CPP code.
And this and CD, CPP code, CD.
So if you hit typing,
you can actually use the tab key and it
will auto finish for you.
We can go to this and we create an empty.
cpp file. So it's not like in the.
NET project,
it creates the code file for you.
We need to create this hello world.cpp,
the code file by ourselves this time for
C projects.
So we create the Hello World of CPP and
open the folder in VS Code,
which is the same.
Steps with the with the C# program.
So, we open another code.
Yeah,
now we can see this hello world dot CPP
and I'll just do this again.
So we can keep this simple,
add the following code for a simple
command line programme that outputs hello
world. So we copy that.
And turn off this and turn off this. OK,
so we'll paste that in.
And I save, OK,
then different compared to the.NET build,
we need to compile and then run this C
code. So, for us,
the command to compile the code is this
command.
We copy that and you can also,
this is the command to run this program.
You can do it all at once or you can do
it step by step. So I copy that line.
Open the terminal.
If it's not open to you,
you click on that and go to terminal and
create a new terminal.
And we paste the command here to.
Compiled code.
Okay,
so clearly I have some issues with my
installations.
Ohh, what is folding in here?
I have this C, yeah, I don't think my,
yeah, yeah, I think my,
Yeah, yeah, looks like a, yeah.
I think my installation is not finished,
to be honest. I may, I need to,
I need to go from the manual installation
because last time I run the.
8:00 AM.
I think that maybe the language specific
tools are not installed.
That's what's happening. Exactly. Yeah.
It looks like a DM.
If it says if it says CLN plus plus dot
found,
it basically means that your compiler's
Yeah, that makes... yeah, exactly.
So the automated setup has failed for me.
not there.
Now,
it basically means I need to go to the
manual steps. Already. So...
If that's successful,
if that's the compiling is successful,
you should see, sorry, go back.
Ah.
You should see another hello world,
like we've seen before. All right. Okay,
we will do this demo quick.
We'll quickly demo this in our next
seminar.
And we also have around 20 minutes.
We hope to leave that to some one-on-one
sessions. Any questions that
we have so far regarding to how to,
but I hope you get the gist of how to
finish a task.
Awesome, if you don't have any questions,
let's go into the one-on-one session time.
Yeah.
I will quickly create a post.
Please leave your name under this post
Yeah.
and we will call you one by one.
Yeah.
Just one more thing, guys. Now,
this being the second week we are,
Yep.
we do have like a very,
very in-depth walkthrough. Now,
this won't be the case for every single
week.
We might have a similar walkthrough maybe
next week,
a smaller one in the week following that.
And I think week 5 onwards,
things will become a bit shorter.
and then it'll all be about you,
what problems you're facing,
and how we can help you specifically with
your tasks, and any other, you know,
learning or any doubts that you might
have. Right, so walkthroughs,
very detailed walkthroughs for the first
couple of weeks,
and then things start shrinking a bit,
and then you'll have more time.
For 100 sessions now,
I know we are running short as well.
I mean,
we have what run about 10 minutes left,
but yeah,
if if there's anyone here who has any
installation problems or anything of that
sort, maybe what we can do is, like, Alex,
I'm not sure if if we have installation
problems,
Yep.
maybe we can have like a several.
An entire group that maybe we can discuss
that, because, yeah, like...
In how, yeah, yeah. Oh,
actually creates a separate breakout room
Yeah.
if we have any installation issues.
And now installation issues will go to
another.
Yeah, yeah, for non-installation issues,
what we can do is for non-installation
Room, maybe, yeah.
issues, for anything specific,
we can have a one-on-one chat,
but anything installation related,
maybe we can have like a separate group.
How does that sound?
I think so, but Ben,
are you able to open a breakout room?
I think it's because of the setups,
I could not make breakout rooms.
No, me neither.
I think it has been disabled.
Yeah, well,
there is one option called rooms. Hang on,
so automatically, yeah, I can actually,
we can create rooms.
Right, see you all next week, but yeah,
but you know,
you can probably start that room, Alex,
and maybe you know start with
installation, and for everyone else,
if you have any issues,
I'll still be here for the next 10
minutes, and yeah,
we can go through a problem. So, Ganesh,
I think we you were the first one.
And KATHLEEN, you as well,
so we can probably have a chat.
Yep.
Yeah, we still like trying to sort it out.
Alrighty, so...
How many have installation issues? I mean,
just a quick question, so...
Yep.
Kathleen and Parameshwar, I think.
I will stop the recording for now. Oh,
I cannot stop the report.
Yes, please. Oh, you can't. That's okay.
Yeah, I can stop recording.